---
layout:     post
title:      "Vroom Vroom"
tags:       [self, lifestyle, finance]
category:   [personal]
subtitle:   "Thoughts about purchasing a car"
date:       2017-06-27 12:00:00
author:     "Inha Joo"
header-img: "img/moneywp.jpg"
---

<p> Cars - even the cheapest ones - are expensive. A beater that breaks down every few months will set you back in the thousands. A new car with leather seats and a sweet Bose sound system costs more than what most people make in a year. </p>

<p> In April of this year, I bought the refundable Tesla Model 3 reservation which costed $1000. I was obsessed about Teslas; I subscribed to /r/teslamotors, watched countless Model S reviews and Model 3 spotting videos, and had a budget in place that allowed me to afford a Model 3 once the order was placed. </p>

<p> But over time I started to realize how much of an expense the Model 3 would be and decided to cancel my reservation - my heart was broken, but I had to do the responsible thing. Space is at a premium here in Seattle, and rent is rising aggressively. I would have to pay an additonal $150-200 a month for a parking spot. Not only that, the parking spot would need to have a charger. Buying any new car is an expensive prospect, so it is better to walk away rather than be saddled by debt that adds stress to your life. A car is a depreciating asset; the moment it is driven off the lot, it immediately loses value. Why not invest in something that appreciates (such as index funds or saving for a downpayment for a condo/house)?</p>

<h2 class="section-heading">Why I decided to cancel my Model 3 reservation</h2>
<p> 1. Maintenance costs. We've got auto insurance, parking spots, traffic tickets, parking tickets - as I am unfortunately very prone to, and maintenance. The thrill of owning a new car lasts only a few months, but the pain of paying the same car payment lasts for years. <p>
<p> 2. Opportunity cost. If I buy a car, I lose the opportunity to invest my money in assets that will likely grow and pay me dividends in the future. The effects of compound interest is real. If I invested in the stock market 300-500 dollars a month for 3 years, I would probably accumulate around $15,000-$30,000!</p>
<p> 3. Stress. If I spend a big amount of my savings for a car, I will feel stress. I would feel stressed about door dings, bumper scrapes, even break ins. Additionally, the car would make me want more. The nicer my car, the nicer my other things. I would start having stupid thoughts like: I've got to buy a matching chronometer watch, driving shoes, car accessories, etc. </p>

<h2 class="section-heading"> A Better Way </h2>
<p> There's a certain peace of mind that comes with not owing money any bank or credit card company. There's a certain relief that comes when you know that your money is yours. Instead of looking at a Tesla Model 3, I've been eying on a car that will help me move forward financially - a Mazda3. Zoom zoom! </p>