---
layout:     post
title:      "Working at Amazon"
tags:       [work, lifestyle]
category:   [tech]
subtitle:   "comparing a giant corporation vs a medium sized company"
date:       2017-03-12 12:05:00
author:     "Inha Joo"
header-img: "img/AmazonWebservices_Logo.svg_.jpg"
---

<span class="caption text-muted">To go places and do things that have never been done before – that’s what living is all about.</span>

<p> Last year in November, I decided to move to Seattle from my hometown of Chicago for an Amazon opportunity. While there are so many things to talk about my decision of moving to Seattle, this entry will only be about working at Amazon compared to my last job. </p>

<p> For context, I graduated at the end of 2014. After graduation, I decided to accept an offer with Trading Technologies, based in Chicago. Trading Technologies is a medium-sized FinTech company (about 200-350 employees), and honestly, it was a great post-grad job experience. I learned so much over the past 1.5 years with them, and still keep in touch with several of my co-workers. They treated their employees well (at least I was), free breakfast, free snacks/drinks, and other tech perks you would normally expect from a typical tech company. </p>

<p> After 1.5 years, I've decided to accept an offer with Amazon. With TT, I felt like my learning has stagnated. I also have always been interested in moving to the west coast. </p>

<p> Immediately during the new hire orientation, I could tell Amazon was a unique company. Our orientation leader (and many others) heavily stressed <a href="https://www.amazon.jobs/principles"> Amazon's Leadership Principles.</a> The leadership principles were also brought up during the interview process. On my on-site interview, I met with and did 1-on-1 interviews with 6 Amazonians. Every interview (except the lunch interview) seemed to follow the same schedule: ~40 min technical, ~15 min leadership principles and time for me to ask them questions. </p>

<p> Now I've heard stories about Amazon. From friends, online, <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2015/08/16/technology/inside-amazon-wrestling-big-ideas-in-a-bruising-workplace.html"> New York Times </a>. Amazon was known for their terrible work-life balance and the dreaded oncall rotation. Apparently the average tenure is about 1-2 years, but I don't have a source for that. Fortuantely, it has not been bad at all so far. Perhaps I got a lucky team, but everyone is very understanding, relaxed, and a real pleasure to work with. People frequently work from home, and can come/leave whenever they want.</p>

**Pros**
- Very smart and ambitious team. Although most of my teammates are around my age (25-30s), they all go above and beyond what they are asked to do.
- It feels good working at a well-known company. Everyone knows what Amazon is, and in the tech industry, Amazon is considered one of the "Big 4" - the others being Google, Facebook, and Microsoft.
- Learning a lot. Lots of opportunities to explore new areas or attend talks.
- Working with things with HUGE scale. Knowing that a change you make, could potentially affect millions of customers
- Encourages independence. I believe this is a huge plus. My last job, I was pretty much hand-held and decisions came from my product manager and dev manager. But in Amazon, I am encouraged to have ownership. Always be asking "why?" and always be learning.
- $$$

**Cons**
- Very cutthroat. Definitely a more stressful environment than my last job. People regularly stay until 7pm or later. In fact, as of this moment it's 7:01 pm and more than half the team is still here.
- Don't feel significant. In Amazon, there's literally thousands of software engineers, and you are just one person. While you definitely do impact your team, it doesn't really go outside of that.
- Oncall can be rough. I haven't been oncall yet, but from seeing my teammates oncalls, it can definitely be demanding.
- No free food/drinks! Well... we do get bread, oatmeal, cereal, coffee, and tea, but nothing more than that. To be honest, this is not a big deal to me though. While Amazon is pretty frugal to their employees, they definitely make sure developers have what they need to work.

<p> These are just a few points, but overall I believe accepting an offer with Amazon was a solid choice in my career. Cheers to 2017.</p>


